From our extensive TBM work at a Federal Agency, we have learned that effective data management forms the cornerstone of a sustainable DataOps strategy for TBM. Our company implemented a lightweight, yet effective, TBM data governance framework for the Agency using a centralized data catalog that meticulously tracks the origin ("what"), ownership ("who"), location ("where"), and processing details ("how") for both existing and newly integrated data sources. We use the dynamic, living data catalog to comprehensively track all TBM-relevant datasets. This includes critical financial data, such as General Ledger (GL) entries, Capital Expenditure (CapEx) reports, cost center allocations, object class hierarchies, detailed budgets, and labor details. Beyond financials, we meticulously track non-financial data, including comprehensive application inventories, project portfolios, and granular data center and cloud consumption reports.
 
In support of the said Agency, we currently use datalinks for direct connections to essential sources, such as ServiceNow, Azure, and AWS, to streamline data acquisition and minimize manual effort. These connections operate on a regular cadence, ensuring that our TBM reporting is consistently up-to-date and accurate.
 
Data enhancement initiatives are driven by strategic use cases, not solely by data availability. This approach ensures that our efforts are focused on maximizing the impact and value derived from TBM data, directly supporting our customer’s critical business objectives and driving meaningful insights.
 
Our extensive TBM experience has taught us that high data quality is crucial for effective TBM. In addition to using automated checks and comparative reporting, our company uses several methods to ensure the Agency’s TBM data accuracy and reliability:
ü  We use a data "washer and dryer" system that validates data before importing it. This process identifies and corrects discrepancies early to prevent them from affecting results.
ü  We assign clear data ownership to stakeholders. This includes business, finance, and IT teams to ensure accountability and data trustworthiness.
ü  We continuously audit new transactions against the baseline or previous datasets to deliver high-quality, trustworthy data for optimal Agency TBM decision-making.

Recognizing that data is dynamic, our proven approach ensures continuous integration of new cost and operational data as they become relevant. New data sources undergo rigorous assessment for quality, volume, frequency, and complexity prior to integration. 